It is time for our first demonstration in this module.
The first development step is allowing the consumer
to test using a provider double.
The new feature that we try to develop concerns bonus points that
passengers may receive according to the distances that they cover
using the flights of the company.
There will be an external service to take care of the distances management.
While this one is under development, we'll have to mock its behavior.
So we have left our flights management application at
the level of the integration testing.
We have shown how the two classes, Flight and Passenger,
have been integrated together by exposing the effects in
the interfaces and in their interaction.
We have introduced Arquillian as testing framework allowing to deploy the Java
program to a Java Enterprise edition application server.
Our Arquillian integration test is mainly shaped by the RunWith
Arquillian.class annotated class by the public static method annotated
with deployment that returns our ShrinkWrap archive,
and by the several methods annotated with test.
We checked that the whole suite is running and that the code coverage is 100%.
We now presume that a new feature to be introduced will require
awarding some bonus points to the passengers depending on the
distances they have traveled with the company.
The bonus policy is simple.
A passenger will get one bonus point for each 10 KM that he or she has traveled.
So we'll need to keep here the distance traveled by a flight
and we'll generate the getter and the setter.
The management of the bonus policy is externalized with some other
team that will provide this DistancesManager class.
What we know about it so far is the interface,
which in fact forms the contract between the consumer and the provider.
Remember we are following a consumer-driven contract.
The DistancesManager class provides the following methods,
getPassengersDistancesMap, getPassengersPointsMap,
addDistance, and calculateGivenPoints.
We do not know their implementation so far so we
have to provide some dummy ones.
We have to use this class into our further work and
we are going to mock its behavior.
We charge the passengers for which we are going to award bonus points.
We have provided one flight description within this csv, but this is not enough.
We need passengers that have participated to more than one flight
to make sure that our calculation is consistent.
So we do have here flights number two and three which have
passengers in common with the first flight.
To know that we have the same passenger on different flights,
we have to override the equals and hashCode methods.
We'll choose only the identifier as a field to be
included in equals because it is unique.
And of course, only identifier for hashCode.
And this is how the two methods look like now.
Now we know that it is the same passenger if we have the same identifier.
We have to inject two more flights into our tests.
In order to allow changing their attributes,
we'll provide them as parameters of the build flight from csv method.
So now the buildFlightFromCsv method will receive
as parameters the flight number, the number of places,
and the file name where to read the passengers from.
We initialize the flight using the constructor having parameters,
flightNumber and number of places.
Of course, we need to add the new parameters to the buildFlightFromCsv method.
Into this FlightProducer class, we'll have to provide two more producer methods,
but we still need to make some way of distinguishing them.
Which method produces which flight?
How can we do this?
We have created here this annotation called FlightNumber.
This is the way how an annotation is defined.
It shows retention as runtime,
meaning that it is kept during the execution of the program.
Using this annotation,
we may annotate both the field and the method and it
also has a parameter called number,
and we'll apply this annotation with different
parameters on these producer methods.
So we see from here that each producer method has a different flight number.
We'll use these three flights here into FlightWithPassengersTest.
First,
we'll rename the flight variable to Flight1 so that we can
make distinction between the 3 ones.
If we run this test now, it will fail.
Why?
Because we have introduced qualifiers for the producer methods and
none of the methods produces a default flight.
Let's add this FlightNumber annotation into the test and run it again.
Great.
We are back to a normal life.
Let's add the second and the third flight.
As we need to work with mock objects,
we'll add this dependency into the pom.xml file.
Going back to FlightWithPassengersTest,
we'll provide this passengersPointsMap and we are going to
initialize it at the beginning of this test suite.
We provide a mock implementation of the DistancesManager object.
We'll annotate this one with mock and we'll also use this MockitoRule
rule annotated object as it is needed to allow the initialization of
mocks annotated with the mock annotation.
And we create this testFlightsDistances where we instruct the
mock object to return passengersPointsMap when we call
distancesManager.getPassengersPointsMap and then we check the
bonus points are the expected ones.
Now the greater thing on it,
we have inserted something into the map and then we check
that we are correctly retrieving it. However, we are expecting advances from the provider side.